hi Pam Dina here I usually use video to
address my audience's question or share
my marketing thoughts for today I would
like to answer a question from Andy
she says she listened to the podcast
interview that I had with Douglas
Burdette on marketing poke podcast and
after that interview she reached out to
me and told me that sales enablement is
an issue in her company and she wants to
know where to start
that's a great question multiple people
reach out to me after I published my
book in October last year
hey where to start Pam everybody does
marketing support to their sales team a
little bit differently
therefore I want to address this based
on the marketing rose what if you are
marketing individual contributors which
is marketing specialist director of
marketing or VP of Marketing so let's
talk about these three roles what you
can do to get started as an individual
contributors the first thing that you
need to do is to know your roles and
responsibilities are you doing email
marketing are you doing events or are
you wearing multiple hats you need to be
very specific and you understand what
you do right so that's number one
second thing is go talk to you as those
counterparts have a conversation with
them once you open that Pandora's box
they are going to tell you many many
things that you can do well understand
prioritize and then think about it
in terms of what you can actually do in
the context of your current roles and
responsibilities does that make sense
so you don't want to over promise and
overdoing it an another way to approach
it is understand their knees prioritize
them make a formal presentation to your
management and the sales team seek their
approval and the support get the funding
that you need to do that that's another
approach but it's actually more formal
right
what about as the director of marketing
obviously you already have a plan and
also budget and a small team in place so
the recommendation is to have a
conversation with your sales counterpart
understand where that you can actually
align maybe there is low-hanging fruit
that then you can actually support them
right maybe there is a messaging
framework that you are doing they can
actually use or you can modify some of
the marketing content to supplement the
sales need right try to incorporate
their needs into your plan or modify a
little bit of your plan to actually fit
their needs
the best way to do that is during the
company's annual planning cycle but
either way start having a conversation
is a great way to start lastly as a vp
of marketing that is actually the best
way to start which is top-down you have
the power and authority to start a
initiative and to work with your sales
team of course you already have your
plan and your budget and your team so
there's the sales team right have that
conversation and a line on couple
initiatives that you can work together
chances are all your team members are
very busy and that may be what you can
do is start with the small initiative
and identify a couple of the key players
from both sales and marketing team to
actually work together of course chances
are more work one needs to be on the
marketing side and the giving that sales
have a sales quote how they have to meet
right starting with a virtual task force
to get that kick off and they get timely
updates from them if you notice there is
actually a consistent approach I'm
suggesting here the first thing that you
need to do is know yourself write for
individual contributor is to know about
your roles and responsibilities for
directors and the VP of Marketing you
need to know your plan
the second thing is you need to
understand the sales teens challenges
and pinpoint the third is identify what
you can do you probably cannot solve
audio issues but what are the things you
can do
lastly you put the plan or incorporate
that into your overall execution so Andy
I hope I answer your question if you
have a specific role and that you need
me to actually answer that in a more
detail way just reach out to me I'm more
than happy to actually have a
conversation with you okay
in the meantime any one of you have any
specific question you can either reach
out to me or check out my book effective
sales enablement I hope that helps
thanks a lot bye-bye